Okay, so
let's talk about hierarchical states now.
In the first workshop we demonstrated
some uses for hierarchical states and
we could definitely use those
in our timer app as well.
Just looking at this, we have three
states we have idle, running and
paused and those are the current
states of our timer so far.
However, we might want to change things
such as having an overtime state so,
if we go back to the complete application.
Let's make this three seconds.
We want our components to basically
have the same behavior in which
it's still accepting tic events and
it's still counting down when
we're in overtime just because
that's how the Android timer works.
In order to do that,
we need to exhibit this over time state
as being a child of the running state as
well because we're sharing
behaviour between those two states.
So over here in running,
just gonna, it's attached.
I'm going to make just
an overall running state and
we could have two,
two child states over here,
we'll call this normal And
we could also have This one
which is called overtime.
And so of course we go from
normal to overtime when we would
normally go to the expired state, and
so we could start on the normal state.
So what this means, this diagram right
here what it means is that basically
when we're in the running states or
when we enter the running state,
we also enter the normal state,
which is the child of that running states.
And we're in both of these
states at the same time, but
these could be thought of as
basically two separate states.
This is running dot normal, and
this is running dot over time.
And then we could transition and
do all that.
So let me show you an example
in the scratch up real quick.
We have our same alarm machine so
Let's just go over here.
And let's say that we want to express
this active state as both being like
a normal and a different state.
The way that we would do these nested
states is, since all of these are objects,
we could basically compose
the same type of object.
So we could have initial,
normal, and then we could have
states over here such as normal and
we might go into a different state.
It looks good state so
like after five seconds it'll go to or
after half a second it goes
to this looks good state.
So what's happening here is our
alarm is going to work the same
way once it goes to the active state, but
it's not actually going to be in
just the active state anymore.
It's gonna be in this active and
then active normal you just saw there
real quick and then active, looks good.
So you could think about using this
in sort of an animation where once
you activate it after a second,
it turns green or it fades out or
fades in or something like that.
You see how it goes from active dot
normal to active that looks good so
this means that it's
in both the active and
the active dot looks good
states at the same time.
That's what hierarchical states are and
we go more in depth in this in the first
front end masters state workshop.
Are there any questions about hierarchical
states before we go to the exercise?
>> I guess you could break it up so
you could import that state that's in
the hierarchy, just so you don't end up
with like some massive state like just
in terms of being able to absorb
it a little more bite size.
>> The question was about just being
able to, if you do have hierarchical
states it making sense to just
have this entire thing be,
imported from somewhere else,
you could definitely do that.
But honestly, once it gets to the point
of your machine getting too big,
then it might make sense to separate
it into smaller machines instead of
just trying to create a very
huge hierarchy of states.
So we'll talk about that
in the final lesson.
But you could definitely do that.
It's just a JavaScript object
at the end of the day.